you
hello and welcome to the penultimate
episode in our harvest highlight series
harvest is finally drawing to a close
and drilling is now well underway as the
last pockets of wheat of being couple is
starting to get a fuller picture of how
the crop has fared this season milling
wheat quality is benefited from the dry
harvest with Hagberg being the highest
recorded since 1990 we have even seen a
UK wheat yield record with grower tim
laman in Lincolnshire achieving a
massive 14.3 tons of the hectare with
the variety kws kilda it's only narrowly
beat the previous record by 0.01 tons to
the hectare but mr Lamb eamon had hopes
to challenge the world record of 15.6
two tonnes which was set in New Zealand
however I'm sure I'd be more than happy
with that yield in Peter regarth grant
sent us this footage a horse farm
combine in winter wheat nearby local
farmer Mike good lives says he has seen
surprisingly good yields but last year's
crop has proved expensive to grow
compounded by low prices for selling
meanwhile just down the road David South
has seen yields between three and three
and a half tons to the hectare however
it's the spring crops and drilling that
are really stayed in the focus at the
minute in Berkshire Jonathan dolbeare
has been harvesting his tipple spring
barley coming in it's a very respectable
nine tons of the hectare and 16 and a
half percent moisture mr. dolbeare has
managed to get started on his spring
oilseed rape harvesting dsv ability of
fourteen point eight percent moisture
and seeing yields of around 1.2 4 tons
for the hectare there is a fair amount
of spring or seed raping the ground this
year and so far yields have looked
promising from this year's spring all
seed rate to next year's winter oilseed
rape and many growers have already got
there as in the ground and in very good
conditions Tom Stein sent us this also
you drape drilling footage abroad ditch
farming Kent showing a John Deere 6-930
direct drilling revolver with a three
meter sumo trio and finally although the
main harvest is coming to an end potato
harvest is very much still in full swing
Jake freestone took this video
with Henry chin at Cobra farms so far
the Cold Springs reduced yields on the
early crop whilst the salad crop as
shown here has been harvested in
terrific conditions yields are slightly
down from the budgeted 30 tons to the
hectare at 27 tons but it is expected to
easily make customer specification the
main crop is running behind having
started desiccation slightly late and
yields look variable with an irrigated
crop suffering from the hot spell of
weather during July the latest report
suggests around nineteen thousand
hectares have been cleared so far okay
that's it for this week and in one more
week left so that means only one more
chance for you to get your videos and
pictures in we really look forward to
seeing you again next time
you